In this lecture, we're going to learn about Dev's phases as well as some of the critical terminology
in DevOps, CI, CD and CD.
I have put CD twice and that's intentional and that will become clear as we go through the lecture.
All right.
Let's get started.
So at this point, we understand the high level automated workflow of DevOps, but there are formal
phases for this workflow.
The first DevOps phase is OTR, where you, the almighty developer, write code.
The next phase is called source, where you check in the source code in some sort of code repository
such as GitHub.
The next.
And one of the most critical phase of DevOps is build, where your code gets compiled and the artifacts
gets created as well as unit testing is done.
So one example of build could be your code got compiled and a zip file got created.
If you are creating a lambda function or your java code got compiled and a jar file got created, so
on, so forth, the next phase is test phase.
So in the build phase you just run unit testing, but in the test phase you will run integration testing,
load testing, UI testing and penetration testing.
And the next phase is deploy where you deploy the artifacts in your environments in addition to these
formal phases.
The other phase is monitoring.
In this continuous monitoring phase, you will utilize logs, metrics and traces to continuously monitor
your application.
And if an error is detected, the remediation should also be automated.
Now that's the ideal end state, but it's okay if sometimes you need manual investigation to fix the
error.
Remediation could be as simple as rolling back to the previous version of the code, which could be
automated easily.
But if you need deeper investigation and then action, then using the output of this monitoring phase,
the appropriate teams can be alerted automatically and then they investigate and fix the issue.
Now let's look into the critical term CI, CD and CD.
So the first three phases author, source and build is known as continuous integration or CI.
Now the next terminology, continuous delivery or CD extends the concept of continuous integration with
continuous delivery.
As soon as the developer checks in the code, the code gets built, unit tested, and then goes through
integration testing, load testing, API testing, whatever testing is appropriate for your project
and then is ready to be deployed to the environment.
Now notice this person with a laptop which says manual approval.
So with continuous delivery you still require a manual approval to deploy your code to production.
So the next evolution of CD or continuous delivery is continuous deployment, which is also termed as
CD with continuous deployment source build.
Test deploy is fully automated without any manual approval.
So as soon as the code is checked in, it will get built, tested and deployed to production.
You don't need any human approval.
So you might be thinking, what if I have a problem with my code on that get deployed with continuous
deployment?
Well, that's where rigorous automated testing comes into play.
If any of the automated testing fails, either the unit testing fails or integration load UI penetration
testing fails.
You can stop the pipeline and send an automated alert to the developer.
Also note that during these test phases you can specify if 90% of the test cases pass, you are okay
to deploy in certain projects, you need 100% of the test cases passed.
So keep these two different CDs in mind.
Continuous delivery versus continuous deployment.
It is a hot topic in the interviews.
Also note that both the CDs extend only up to the deploy phase.
Monitoring phase is out of this CI or CD phase.
That's why I have colored it differently than the other five phases.
This author source build, test and deploy it instrumented in an automated fashion.
Even with the human approval is termed as pipeline or sicced pipeline, you will have different pipelines
for different environments.
For example, you could have a separate pipeline for development, environment, stage environment and
prod environment.
One thing to keep in mind as this is not set in stone, you don't need every phase in every environment.
For example, for your project you might determine that you need testing is sufficient for.
Loving the environment, so you might not have the separate test phase for your dev environment pipeline.
In some cases, you might not need to rebuild your code again in the project environment and you might
decide to use the artifact generated from the stage build and use it in the production environment.
So there are no hard and fast recommendation here.
You need to decide based on your project.
All right, now that we understand the DevOps phases, let's take a look at some of the important DevOps
tools.